# Use resource file in .NET programming
There are 3 methods to load resource file in .NET programming.   
1. Use file by path (relative path)
2. Use *.resx 
3. Embedded resource

## Use file by path
It is most easiest way to use resource file. But it has following issue:
- Relative path is inaccurate.
- Additional setting should be applied when build.
- Additional setting should be applied when packaging NuGet.

### Solution for relative path risk.
Use the following code to get the actural binary folder.
```csharp
AppDomain.CurrentDomain.RelativeSearchPath ?? AppDomain.CurrentDomain.BaseDirectory
```
### Setting when build
**Copy Local** tag should be set in the ```csproj``` file for the project depends on it could copy the file the the output folder
```xml
    <None Update="{file to read}">
      <CopyToOutputDirectory>Always</CopyToOutputDirectory>
    </None>
```
### Setting when packaging NuGet package
[Additional NuGet files in new csproj](https://tyrrrz.me/Blog/Additional-NuGet-files-in-new-csproj)
```xml
<Project Sdk="Microsoft.NET.Sdk">
  <!-- ... -->

  <Content Include="SOME_FILE">
    <Pack>true</Pack>
    <PackageCopyToOutput>true</PackageCopyToOutput>
  </Content>
</Project>
```
### Pros & Cons
**Pros:**  
1. Easy to understand
2. No external dependency

**Cons:**   
1. If the name of the file is changed. Possible bring Runtime break.
2. Should be careful on the relative path situation.
3. Additional setting is required for packaging.

## Use *.resx
[Working with .resx files programmatically](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/framework/resources/working-with-resx-files-programmatically).    
Right click the project in Visual Studio -> Property -> Resources -> Add Resource. 

### Pros & Cons
**Pros:**    
1. Could be config by UI.
2. File missing/rename will cause build break. 
3. The file could be packed automatically when packaging NuGet.

**Cons:**    
1. Not supported in dotnet publish, only in msbuild publish. https://github.com/Microsoft/msbuild/issues/22212.
2. The resource file could be outside project & causing issue.
3. Special character((char)65279)) will be appended to the beginning of the file content. [Char issue1][char 65279(1)], [Char issue2][char 65279(2)].

## Use Embedded Resource
[Use assembly embedded resource](https://www.geekality.net/2008/12/27/how-to-use-assembly-embedded-resources/).    
Add file to project. And set the property of the file to ```Embedded Resource```.
```csharp
Assembly assembly = Assembly.GetExecutingAssembly();
Stream imageStream = assembly
    .GetManifestResourceStream("{File name with assembly prefix}");
```
```xml
  <ItemGroup>
    <EmbeddedResource Include="File name" />
  </ItemGroup>
```

### Pros & Cons
**Pros:**    
1. File could be packed automatically when package NuGet.
2. Dotnet publish & msbuild publish will not affect usage.


**Cons:**   
1. More code to integrate for usage.
2. No compile-time erro when file name change.

[char 65279(1)]: https://blog.csdn.net/yuri99/article/details/45851225
[char 65279(2)]: https://stackoverflow.com/questions/6784799/what-is-this-char-65279